So let's now define a color picker a field that we'll use in order to change the accent color of the website.
So let's create a new section and we'll call it General Options.
And then inside of it we'll put the Color Picker.
So let's go now to
the customize.php and I've added some comments here for the different sections that we'll add
throughout the course. So let's add a new section and call it General Options. Let's do that quickly and let's
copy this.
And just change the "footer" to "general".
Now let's add a new setting to
to add to this field. So.
And let's call it "accent_colour" and
pass an array of options. And I have a typo
here.
So give it a "default" value. And we'll make this the current color.
Let's see the code for it
And this one.
And we'll also sanitize it. So "sanitize_callback" and we don't have to define a custom function.
There is a core function WordPress called "sanitize_hex_color" which will sanitize the color in this format the hex format.
So this will be perfect.
Now it's time to add a control for the settings. So to add an HTML element control we used to define the control as
so, and a type of text or select or ant HTML element.
But now we need a custom color picker.
So this will be a little different. But it's easier as well WordPress provides custom classes.
And if you go to this guide and the core custom control section. You'll finally some classes like WP_Customize _Color_Control
or Medis_Control for images and audio and stuff like that.
So the one that we will need is customize color control.
So let's copy this example and it's defined a little bit differently.
So you first initialize the WP_Customize_Color_Control and then you pass it the $wp_customize object which is this
one. And then you add the setting name here or the control name which should be the same. And then the
array of options.
So a little bit different but nothing really hard here.
And let's change the text domain. And the sction we will need to add it in the our newly created section.
And let's see now our Customizer.
And we now have a General Options section and inside of it an accent color.
So now we can change this color and the iframe will refresh.
But of course nothing will change now because we haven't used this field yet. So let's do that now.
So let's open our website and let's view the source.
So we have our CSS loaded here, in the bundle.css file.
And what we need to do is to load some styles after this file to override it.
But also we need this file to be a PHP file because we will need to write some PHP in it, right?
We need to get this field using some PHP functions.
So you might think, all right, we can go to the footer.php which will be loaded definitely after we load our CSS
files and write some inline styles to override it.
So let's try to do that. As you go to footer.php.
And let's add some inline styling here. Let's add a background to the body.
And now because we're in a PHP file we can use,
you can open a PHP tag and write some PHP.
So we can echo the theme option.
So "get_theme_mod".
And then the name which we called "accent_colour".
So let's try and see if this will work.
And as you can see it's working and let's try and change it.
And it's working great.
So the idea is to override any styles that use this color in an inline style that is loaded after the our
original bundle.css, fine.
However writing these styles in the footer.php is not right approach.
So let's delete what we've written now. And let's see how to properly add inline styles in WordPress.
So let's go to enqueue-assets.
So to add inline styles in WordPress properly you need to use in the "enqueue_script" action.
You need to call a function called wp_add_inline_style(). And it takes a "handle" and the "handle" should be
handle over CSS stylesheet that already exists. And you want to load these styles after it. So we
need to load our styles after our main stylesheet.
So it should be this handle.
And it also takes the CSS string that we want to enqueue.
So let's write some CSS as a string.
And let's try now and see. Sorry I typed script here instead of style.
So let's try again and it's working.
And let's see it in the source.
And as you can see right after the bundle.css we now have an inline style which also had an ID
and this will be very useful in the future.
And our string here.
But of course we will have probably a lot of CSS here.
So it doesn't make sense to write all of it in the second argument here as a string.
So let's create a new file.
In the lib and let's call it inline.css. And here we will define a string variable that contains all
of our CSS styles that we need to add inline. And then we'll import this variable here and add it as second
argument.
So let's do that. So let's open PHP and the define a new variable. Let's call it $inline_styles.
And let's add some CSS.
So we need to change all the A tags to our accent color from the Options page. So.
And in case you don't know if you use a double quote here in a string
you can use PHP variables like that instead of, you know, concatenating using the dot and stuff
like that.
So let's define a $accent_color variable that we will get from the options.
So "get_theme_mod()".
And a name which is this one, and as the default value is this color here.
But of course this is a value from the database so we should sanitize it or escape it before using it.
So let's use the same function that we used in the Customizer.
So we now defined a variable here with the CSS string. And we need to make it available here. So we can
use PHP's include() function. And include() needs an absolute path.
So you can use "get_template_directory()" without "uri".
And then our path which is "/lib/". And "inline-css.php". And now this variable will be available and we can
post it as a second argument.
So let's see now.
And as you can see the link color already changed.
So let's try and change it.
And as you can see the link colors change and any CSS we will add in this file will be applied to.
So that's great.
So let's add some more styles to this file. So let's see what else we can add.
We have the focus ring and the focus ring is the,
it's an outline color.
So let's try and add some style for this one.
So let's go to the inline-css.
And add one more selector here ":focus". And then this time it'll be the same but "outline-color".
So let's see now.
And as you can see the outline color changed.
And of course as we change it it will reflect on the Customizer.
We also have this border color.
So let's save this and add it here. And this will be "border-left-color"
and it will be, it will take the $accent_colour.
And we have also some backgrounds like the button.
Button and input submit.
So if you have a large template this will be a kind of a boring process but it's worth it. And this will
"background-color".
So we don't have to do all of them so let's try these.
And as you can see we have our color in all the selectors. So let's do these as well.
And this will be, let's add class
"open" here.
And
let's hover on the LI.
And this will be it.
So let's add this one to the background.
And fine. So you can do some improvements to this.
So right now the whole iframe will refresh if we change the color.
So let's figure out a way to do this as fast as possible without refreshing the whole iframe.